title: Contribute to the OP Stack
lang: en-US
description: Learn different ways you can contribute to the OP Stack.

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Contribute to the OP Stack

The OP Stack is a collaborative, decentralized development stack that only gets more powerful as more people contribute. Code for the OP Stack should follow the stack's design principles, which means it should be entirely open source and accessible for people to hack on, contribute to, and extend.
The Optimism Collective wins when it works together. ♥️✨

Whether you're a budding chain operator, app developer, node operator, bounty hunter, content creator, or anything in between, the OP Stack always has something for you to contribute to.
Every contribution makes a difference — no contribution is too small. If you're ready to contribute, check out one of the following contributor pathways below.

Component Contributions

The OP Stack is a decentralized development stack and is constantly evolving as new layers and modules are developed. Anyone can contribute components that can be considered part of the OP Stack as long as those components fit the stack's design principles and goals.
To start contributing components to the stack, check out some of these useful ideas and get to building! And don't forget that projects can also receive grants from the Collective via RetroPGF.

Codebase Contributions

The OP Stack codebase is not a product (in the traditional sense) but rather a collection of software components that power the Optimism ecosystem.
If you'd like to contribute to the current release of OP Stack codebase, rather than creating new components, your contribution would be greatly appreciated.
A "Release"of the OP Stack codebase is a particular set of software components that are production-ready and which fit the stack's design principles and goals.

To make your first contribution to the codebase, check out the open issues on the Optimism Monorepo.

Bounty Hunting

The OP Stack needs YOU (yes you!) to help review the codebase for bugs and vulnerabilities. If you're interested in bounty hunting, check out our Security Policy, Vulnerability Reporting, and Bug Bounties page.

Docs Contributions

Want a new tutorial? See something that could be a little clearer? Check out the Optimism Docs Contribution page for more information on how to help. No contribution is too small!

Community Contributions

If you're looking for other ways to get involved, here are a few options:

Grab an idea from the project ideas list to start building
Suggest a new idea for the project ideas list
Become an Optimism Ambassador, Support Nerd, and more in the Optimism Discord