title: Testnet Faucets
lang: en-US
description: Learn how to get testnet ETH on test networks like Sepolia and OP Sepolia for development and testing purposes.

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Testnet Faucets

Faucets are developers tools that allow you to get free ETH (and other tokens) on test networks like Sepolia and OP Sepolia so that you can send transactions and create smart contracts.
Here you'll find a list of active faucets that you can try out.
Different faucets use different authentication methods, so you may have to try a few before you find one that works for you.
Faucets can occasionally also run out of ETH, so if you're having trouble getting ETH from a faucet, try another one.

Superchain Faucet

The Superchain Faucet is a developer tool hosted by Optimism that allows developers to get free testnet ETH to test apps on testnet OP Chains like Base Sepolia, OP Sepolia, PGN Sepolia, Zora Sepolia, and other OP Chains in the Superchain.
The Superchain Faucet is a great place to start if you're looking for testnet ETH.

Additional Faucets

Faucet Name Supported Networks
Alchemy Faucet Sepolia
Infura Faucet Sepolia
QuickNode Faucet Sepolia, OP Sepolia
Farcaster Frame Faucet by LearnWeb3 Sepolia, OP Sepolia
LearnWeb3 Web App Faucet Sepolia, OP Sepolia
Native USDC Faucet Sepolia, OP Sepolia
ETHGlobal Testnet Faucet Sepolia, OP Sepolia, Base Sepolia, Zora Sepolia, Holesky
Ethereum Ecosystem Faucets Sepolia, OP Sepolia, Base Sepolia

Bridge from Sepolia

If you have testnet ETH on Sepolia, you can bridge it to OP Sepolia (and vice versa) using the Superchain Bridges UI or this collection of Superchain Testnet Tools.

Inclusion Criteria

Developer teams who want to feature products/tools on this page must meet the following criteria:

ongoing partnership with Optimism whether formal agreement, RPGF, RFP, collaborated on specific initiatives, etc.;
established user base and OP ecosystem engagement such as governance participation, homegrown TG or Discord participation, etc.; and
actively maintained developer tool that aligns with OP's commitment to a magical developer experience (e.g., easy-to-use, easy-to-integrate, great DevX, highly-rated by community, etc.)

For teams that are supporting but still establishing a user base, we encourage you to share your tool on the community faucets page.
You can also promote your tool in the developer forum and signup to share your tool at the next demo day.

Next Steps

If you're new to onchain development, check out Optimism Unleashed by CryptoZombies and Superchain Builder NFT by ThirdWeb.
If you're familiar with onchain development, check out the Optimism Ecosystem's Contributions Dashboard for project ideas that the Optimism Collective is looking for.
Looking for other developer tools? See developer tools overview to explore more options!