title: Supporting OP Mainnet in Your Wallet
lang: en-US
description: Learn how to support OP Mainnet in your wallet.

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Supporting OP Mainnet in Your Wallet

Check out this guide to get an overview of everything you need to know to properly support OP Mainnet within your wallet.

Connecting to OP Mainnet

OP Mainnet is designed to be EVM equivalent and supports all of the same tooling as Ethereum.
You can use your favorite Ethereum libraries and tools to work with OP Mainnet.
Head over to the Networks and RPC Endpoints page for network connection details and check out the RPC Providers page for an updated list of RPC providers that support OP Mainnet.
If you need to run your own OP Mainnet node, head over to the Node Operator guide.

Native Gas Token (ETH)

OP Mainnet uses ETH as its native gas token.
Transactions are paid for in ETH and account balances are denominated in ETH.

Transaction Fees

OP Mainnet charges the standard gas fee for transactions, but also charges an additional L1 data fee for the cost of publishing transaction data to Ethereum.
Check out the Transaction Fees page for more information about how transaction fees work on OP Mainnet.

Smart Contracts

Smart contracts on OP Mainnet function the same way they do on Ethereum.
You can use your favorite Ethereum libraries and tools to interact with smart contracts on OP Mainnet.

Token Addresses

The ERC-20 contract address for a token on OP Mainnet may differ from the address for the same token on Ethereum.
Addresses for many common tokens will differ between OP Mainnet and Ethereum.
Make sure to reference the Bridged Token Addresses to confirm that you are using the correct token addresses in your application.

Bridging ETH and ERC-20s

You may need to transfer ETH or ERC-20 tokens between OP Mainnet and Ethereum.
This is a useful feature for users who want to move tokens between the two networks.
Refer to the Basics of Bridging and the Standard Bridge guides for more information about how to bridge ETH and ERC-20 tokens between OP Mainnet and Ethereum.

Transaction Statuses

OP Mainnet transactions have a number of different statuses during the transaction lifecycle.
The status of a transaction can be useful for users.
Refer to the Transaction Statuses page for more information about the different transaction statuses and how to handle them in your application.