title: Block Explorers
lang: en-US
description: Learn about different block explorers you can use to interact with contracts and view transaction history for OP Mainnet and OP Sepolia.

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Block Explorers

This reference guide lists different block explorers you can use to interact with contract source code and view transaction history for OP Mainnet and OP Sepolia.

Blockscout

We have a Blockscout explorer for OP Mainnet and OP Sepolia. It includes:

Verified testnet contract source code, along with the ability to interact with it
Detailed testnet transaction information

Blockscout also has some OP-Mainnet-specific features:

An interactive list of deposits (L1-L2)
An interactive list of withdrawals (L2-L1)
Transaction batches
Output roots
App marketplace
And much more!

Etherscan

We have Etherscan explorers for the OP Mainnet and the OP Sepolia.
Etherscan has lots of tools to help you debug transactions.

Optimistic Etherscan has all the tools you expect from Etherscan, such as:

Verified contract source code, along with the ability to interact with it
Detailed transaction information
And everything else you might find on Etherscan!

It's also got some OP-Mainnet-specific features:

A list of L1-to-L2 transactions
A list of L2-to-L1 transactions
A tool for finalizing L2-to-L1 transactions
And more! Just check it out and click around to find all of the available features.

Superscan by Routescan

Superscan is the dev-focused Superchain explorer unified at the ecosystem level, powered by Routescan. On the Superscan, developers can quickly glance at transactions, blocks, addresses, deployed contracts and more across the Superchain in unified pages.

The Superscan currently includes:

Mainnet - OP Mainnet, Base, Zora, Mode, Cyber, Orderly, Fraxtal, Public Goods Network
Testnet - Zora, Mode, Orderly, Fraxtal

Once Upon

If you're building on multiple chains, Once Upon's Superchain block explorer consolidates transaction data across all OP Chains, offering developers a unified view of all Superchain activity, including testnets.

Once Upon currently supports:

Mainnet - Ethereum, OP Mainnet, Base, Zora, Public Goods Network
Sepolia - Ethereum, OP Sepolia, Base, Zora, Public Goods Network, Lyra, Mode

Access to Pre-Regenesis History

Because of our final regenesis on 11 November 2021, older transactions are not part of the current blockchain and do not appear on Etherscan.
However, you can access transaction history between 23 June 2021 and the final regenesis using a number of different tools. For detailed instructions, see Regenesis History.

Inclusion Criteria

Developer teams who want to feature products/tools on this page must meet the following criteria:

ongoing partnership with Optimism whether formal agreement, RPGF, RFP, collaborated on specific initiatives, etc.;
established user base and OP ecosystem engagement such as governance participation, homegrown TG or Discord participation, etc.; and
actively maintained developer tool that aligns with OP's commitment to a magical developer experience (e.g., easy-to-use, easy-to-integrate, great DevX, highly-rated by community, etc.)

For teams that are supporting but still establishing a user base, we encourage you to share your tool on the community block explorers page.
You can also promote your tool in the developer forum and signup to share your tool at the next demo day.

Next Steps

Please visit the community block explorers page for a listing of third-party block explorers used by the Optimism developer community.
Looking for other developer tools? See developer tools overview to explore more options!