title: Deploying Your Contracts for Free on the Superchain
lang: en-US
description: Learn how to deploy your contracts for free on the Superchain using the Superchain Developer Console

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components'

Deploying Your Contracts for Free on the Superchain

This tutorial walks you through the process of verifying and deploying your contracts on the Superchain Developer Console and claiming your deployment rebate.

Prerequisites

You must have signed up to the Superchain Developer Console before deploying your contract(s)
You should have a Coinbase Verification linked with your Superchain Dev Console account

Launch for free

  Coinbase Verifications leverage the Ethereum Attestation Service to enable the issuance of Coinbase-verified, onchain attestations. If you already have a Coinbase Verification, proceed to the next step.

To get your verification, go to the Coinbase Verification page and click Get verified.
Login with your Coinbase account and go through the Coinbase Verification flow to get your preferred public key verified.

Link your wallet on the Superchain Dev Console

Once you have your Coinbase Verification, go to the Superchain Developer Console and login with your preferred email.
Select the account drop down and click Wallets. Click Link wallet, and follow the connect wallet flow to link your public key that has a Coinbase Verification to associate your public key with your Superchain Developer Console login.

Verify your contracts on the Superchain Dev Console

Once you have linked your wallet to the Superchain Developer Console, click the banner for Launch anywhere in the Superchain for free.
In the contracts section, add your contract address, deployment transaction hash, deployer address, and select the chain you deployed on.
Click Verify, and proceed with proving ownership of the contract deployment.

Claim your deployment rebates on the Superchain Dev Console

At this point, your contract should successfully have been added to your Superchain Dev Console account, and if eligible, you can claim your deployment rebate.
To proceed, click Eligible for rebate.
To complete claiming your deployment rebate, Click Claim rebate.

Next Steps

Looking for a specific app developer tutorial? Check out our collection of tutorials curated just for you!
If you run into any problems, please reach out to our developer support forum.