title: Analytics Tools
lang: en-US
description: Learn about platforms you can use to gather analytics and setup customizations about OP Mainnet.

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Analytics Tools

The following guide lists platforms you can use to gather analytics and setup customizations about OP Mainnet.

Blocknative

Blocknative lets you decode and analyze OP Stack Batches submitted to the Ethereum L1. You can inspect, analyze, decode, and download the data of any batch – confirmed on-chain or not – via public APIs or visually through the Ethernow Explorer. Below you can find links to the different resources:

Batch Decoding API: decode OP Stack Batch transactions into its human-readable, JSON format.
Blob Archive API: take any versioned hash of an OP Stack Blob and receive the blob data (even beyond the 4096 epoch window of storage).
Mempool Archive: Analyze any OP Stack transaction that was in the Ethereum mempool to see detection time, time pending, gas, etc.
Ethernow explorer: Visually see transactions and batches enter the mempool and get organized into blocks. Use this filter to see OP Stack Batches enter the mempool and land on-chain.

Tenderly

Tenderly monitoring stack lets you inspect any transaction execution on OP Mainnet or OP Sepolia.

You can inspect the state of your verified contract in any step of the transaction's execution, as well as step into or over function calls.
The level of detail the Tenderly dashboard presents will reduce your development time as well as help you understand the execution flow of transactions.
It helps you to inspect states at every instance of transaction and gives a platform to trace transactions. You can also simulate pending (or any other historical) transactions and see their exact outcomes.

monitor wallets
setup real-time alerts for smart contracts
automate your responses to alert triggers with custom webhooks

Dune Analytics

Dune Analytics allows anyone to create dashboards that present information about OP Chains (OP Mainnet, Base, and Zora are available). See Dune Docs for more info.
You can find a list of community created dashboards for OP Chains here, or create your own dashboard.

Here are some of our favorite dashboards so far:

OP Chains / Superchain - L2 Activity, Chain Economics
OP Chains / Superchain - Popular Apps & Project Usage Trends
By OP Chain - L2/L1 Chain Economics
OP Token House Delegates
Superchain NFTs

Additional Tools and Resources

Here are some additional tools and resources for OP Mainnet analytics and development:

DeFi Stats: OP Mainnet's DeFiLlama Page
L2 Usage and Comparison: growthepie
OP Analytics (Incentive Tracking, Helper Functions, Public Analysis): OP Analytics on GitHub
Contribute to NumbaNERDs: Issues on GitHub