title: How to Delegate OP Tokens
lang: en-US
description: A step by step guide to delegating your OP.

Why Delegate?

OP tokens allow holders to vote on some of the most important decisions for the Collective. This empowers everyday users to have a say in the development of the system! But it's also a big responsibility, which requires a serious time commitment. 

For this reason, people are able to delegate the voting power of their OP tokens to a community member who has explicitly volunteered to play an active role in Token House governance. 

These volunteers are called delegates.

Would you like to exercise your governance power and vote yourself?

Before becoming a delegate, review the Prospective Delegate Gov Onboarding Hub for helpful information and guidance. 

Delegate to yourself by registering via the Optimism voting app by connecting your wallet then creating your delegate statement.


Go to the same voting app to delegate your tokens to your own address.

Pease note that snapshots of delegate voting power are taken when a proposal is created


Once you’ve been added as a delegate in the next voting cycle, you can start voting!

Go to the Optimism voting app, connect your wallet, and vote! There is no minimum OP to begin voting requirement, but you will need to have the OP tokens you wish to delegate or vote with in your wallet when the voting measurement is taken. Tokens that are staked or LP’d at the time of measurement do not carry voting power.

Would you like to delegate your voting power to a delegate?

Choose a delegate. 

Take the time to read through delegate statements of interest, choosing your delegate is an important decision! 
A healthy governance system is good for the Optimism Collective and for the whole Superchain. Choosing a good delegate is in each OP token holder's best interest. Remember, this delegate will vote on your behalf. You will not hold any voting power or execute your own votes but you will retain 100% ownership of your tokens, and you'll be able to undelegate, redelegate, or decide to stop delegating at any time.


You can view delegates by different sorting views via the voting app


Go to the voting app to see that you’ve delegated your tokens as intended.


Your delegate should write up the reasoning behind their votes in a Delegate Communications Thread.

Delegation is always in your control. You can return to the voting app at any time to change your delegate selection.